README.md, before:

# Localauth0

[![Build Status](https://drone-1.prima.it/api/badges/primait/localauth0/status.svg)](https://drone-1.prima.it/primait/localauth0)

![localauth0](web/assets/static/media/localauth0.png)

Localauth0 is a project that aims to be a helper while developing authentications inspired by [localstack](https://localstack.cloud/).
Most of the time people tend to mock authentication in order to not be forced to create complex mocks.
With localauth0 you can fake your [auth0](https://auth0.com/) tenant and test it offline for "real".

## Installation

In order to run localauth0 docker image execute the following:

```shell
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 public.ecr.aws/prima/localauth0:0.3.0
```

Note: The latest version is the same `version` written in the `Cargo.toml` file.

## APIs

### Web page

After having run the localauth0 machine a web interface is available at <http://localhost:3000/>.
Here it's possible to:

- get a fresh new JWT with given `audience`.
- add/remove permissions for a given `audience`.

### Jwt

- `POST` <http://localhost:3000/oauth/token>: used to get a freshly new JWT. Body
  should be:

  ```json
  {
    "client_id": "client_id",
    "client_secret": "client_secret",
    "audience": "{{your-audience}}",
    "grant_type": "client_credentials"
  }
  ```
  for the client credentials grant and

  ```json
  {
    "client_id": "client_id",
    "client_secret": "client_secret",
    "grant_type": "authorization_code",
    "code": "{{your-auth-code}}"
  }
  ```
  for the authorization code grant.

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/permissions>: used to get a the list of all audiences with their associated permissions.

- `POST` <http://localhost:3000/permissions>: used to set a list of permissions for
  given audience. Everytime a new JWT is requested for that audience those permissions will be injected in the JWT
  payload. Body should be:

  ```json
  {
    "audience": "{{your-audience}}",
    "permissions": ["your-permission-1", "your-permission-2", ".."]
  }
  ```

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/permissions/{audience}>: used to get a the list of all permissions for the given 
  audience.

### Jwks

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/.well-known/jwks.json>: it's possible to
fetch running instance jwks. Those jwks are randomly created starting from random certificates.
Note that every generated JWT will be signed using one of those JWKS.

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/rotate>: discard the last JWK of the JWKS list and
  prepend a freshly new JWK.

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/revoke>: discard all the JWKs in the JWKS list and
  replace them with 3 freshly new JWKs.

## SSO page

Localauth0 could behave like Google SSO page. In order to achieve this your web page should navigate to
<http://localhost:3000/authorize> providing these query params:

- redirect_uri: your web app callback page
- audience: the audience you want to use to generate the token
- response_type (optional): could be `token` or `code`. Use `token` to perform an implicit grant flow
  and retrieve an access token directly and use `code` to perform an authorization code flow and recieve
  an authorization code. If auth is succesful, the requested redirect is performed with the code or token contained
  in the query params.
- state (optional): An opaque value, used for security purposes. If this request parameter is set in the request, 
  then it is returned to the application as part of the `redirect_uri`.
- bypass (optional): this is a dev feature. If set to true directly redirect to `redirect_uri`.

After redirection the redirect_url will contain these http fragments:
- access_token: the JWT token.
- token_type: always set to `Bearer`.
- expires_in: when will the jwt expires.
- state: present if set in authorize url; contains the same value.

For example navigating to:

<http://localhost:3000/authorize?redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A3000%2F&audience=audience1&client_id=client_id&connection=whatever&response_type=token&scope=whatever&state=test-state&bypass=true>

The page will automatically redirect to:

<http://localhost:3000/#access_token=eyJ..RrQ&token_type=Bearer&expires_in=3600&state=test-state>


## Configuration

Localauth0 can be configured using a `.toml` file, which can be specified using the `LOCALAUTH0_CONFIG_PATH` 
environment variable. Take a look [here](#Integrate-localauth0-in-existing-project) to see how to configure your 
docker compose cluster.

### Local development

#### Run localauth0 from within a docker-compose

Get into docker-compose container with:

```shell
docker-compose run --service-ports web bash
```

Build the artifact, the web dist and run the http server with:

```shell
# Build the web dist with trunk. Then run the server
cargo make run
```

Now website is available at <http://localhost:3000>.

#### Build and run localauth0 as an image

As mandatory step it's needed to create the artifact and the web dist. In order to achieve this run `cargo make
build` or `cargo make run` commands from within the docker-compose container (alternatively from host machine if
`cargo` and `trunk` are installed).

For someone this error could occur on host machine
```shell
error[E0463]: can't find crate for `core`
  |
  = note: the `wasm32-unknown-unknown` target may not be installed
  = help: consider downloading the target with `rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown`

error[E0463]: can't find crate for `compiler_builtins`
```

In order to fix it run 
```shell
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown --toolchain nightly
```

Then run:

```shell
docker build -f Dockerfile_localauth0 -t localauth0 . && \
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 localauth0
```

### Integrate localauth0 in existing project

Add this snippet to your `docker-compose.yml` file and reference it in your app `depends_on` section.

```yaml
  auth0:
    image: public.ecr.aws/prima/localauth0:0.3.0
    environment:
      LOCALAUTH0_CONFIG_PATH: /etc/localauth0.toml
    volumes:
      - ./localauth0.toml:/etc/localauth0.toml:ro
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
```

Commit message:

Add support for https (#30)
* run both http and https server at startup

* make ports configurable

* update docs

README.md, after:

# Localauth0

[![Build Status](https://drone-1.prima.it/api/badges/primait/localauth0/status.svg)](https://drone-1.prima.it/primait/localauth0)

![localauth0](web/assets/static/media/localauth0.png)

Localauth0 is a project that aims to be a helper while developing authentications inspired by [localstack](https://localstack.cloud/).
Most of the time people tend to mock authentication in order to not be forced to create complex mocks.
With localauth0 you can fake your [auth0](https://auth0.com/) tenant and test it offline for "real".

## Installation

In order to run localauth0 docker image execute the following:

```shell
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 public.ecr.aws/prima/localauth0:0.3.0
```

By default, the container exposes an http server on the port 3000 and an https one on port 3001.

Note: The latest version is the same `version` written in the `Cargo.toml` file.

## APIs

### Web page

After having run the localauth0 machine a web interface is available at <http://localhost:3000/>.
Here it's possible to:

- get a fresh new JWT with given `audience`.
- add/remove permissions for a given `audience`.

### Jwt

- `POST` <http://localhost:3000/oauth/token>: used to get a freshly new JWT. Body
  should be:

  ```json
  {
    "client_id": "client_id",
    "client_secret": "client_secret",
    "audience": "{{your-audience}}",
    "grant_type": "client_credentials"
  }
  ```
  for the client credentials grant and

  ```json
  {
    "client_id": "client_id",
    "client_secret": "client_secret",
    "grant_type": "authorization_code",
    "code": "{{your-auth-code}}"
  }
  ```
  for the authorization code grant.

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/permissions>: used to get a the list of all audiences with their associated permissions.

- `POST` <http://localhost:3000/permissions>: used to set a list of permissions for
  given audience. Everytime a new JWT is requested for that audience those permissions will be injected in the JWT
  payload. Body should be:

  ```json
  {
    "audience": "{{your-audience}}",
    "permissions": ["your-permission-1", "your-permission-2", ".."]
  }
  ```

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/permissions/{audience}>: used to get a the list of all permissions for the given 
  audience.

### Jwks

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/.well-known/jwks.json>: it's possible to
fetch running instance jwks. Those jwks are randomly created starting from random certificates.
Note that every generated JWT will be signed using one of those JWKS.

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/rotate>: discard the last JWK of the JWKS list and
  prepend a freshly new JWK.

- `GET` <http://localhost:3000/revoke>: discard all the JWKs in the JWKS list and
  replace them with 3 freshly new JWKs.

## SSO page

Localauth0 could behave like Google SSO page. In order to achieve this your web page should navigate to
<http://localhost:3000/authorize> providing these query params:

- redirect_uri: your web app callback page
- audience: the audience you want to use to generate the token
- response_type (optional): could be `token` or `code`. Use `token` to perform an implicit grant flow
  and retrieve an access token directly and use `code` to perform an authorization code flow and recieve
  an authorization code. If auth is succesful, the requested redirect is performed with the code or token contained
  in the query params.
- state (optional): An opaque value, used for security purposes. If this request parameter is set in the request, 
  then it is returned to the application as part of the `redirect_uri`.
- bypass (optional): this is a dev feature. If set to true directly redirect to `redirect_uri`.

After redirection the redirect_url will contain these http fragments:
- access_token: the JWT token.
- token_type: always set to `Bearer`.
- expires_in: when will the jwt expires.
- state: present if set in authorize url; contains the same value.

For example navigating to:

<http://localhost:3000/authorize?redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A3000%2F&audience=audience1&client_id=client_id&connection=whatever&response_type=token&scope=whatever&state=test-state&bypass=true>

The page will automatically redirect to:

<http://localhost:3000/#access_token=eyJ..RrQ&token_type=Bearer&expires_in=3600&state=test-state>


## Configuration

Localauth0 can be configured using a `.toml` file (see [localauth0.toml](localauth0.toml) as an example), 
which can be specified using the `LOCALAUTH0_CONFIG_PATH` environment variable.
Take a look [here](#Integrate-localauth0-in-existing-project) to see how to configure your docker compose cluster.

### Local development

#### Run localauth0 from within a docker-compose

Get into docker-compose container with:

```shell
docker-compose run --service-ports web bash
```

Build the artifact, the web dist and run the http server with:

```shell
# Build the web dist with trunk. Then run the server
cargo make run
```

Now website is available at <http://localhost:3000>.

#### Build and run localauth0 as an image

As mandatory step it's needed to create the artifact and the web dist. In order to achieve this run `cargo make
build` or `cargo make run` commands from within the docker-compose container (alternatively from host machine if
`cargo` and `trunk` are installed).

For someone this error could occur on host machine
```shell
error[E0463]: can't find crate for `core`
  |
  = note: the `wasm32-unknown-unknown` target may not be installed
  = help: consider downloading the target with `rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown`

error[E0463]: can't find crate for `compiler_builtins`
```

In order to fix it run 
```shell
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown --toolchain nightly
```

Then run:

```shell
docker build -f Dockerfile_localauth0 -t localauth0 . && \
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 localauth0
```

### Integrate localauth0 in existing project

Add this snippet to your `docker-compose.yml` file and reference it in your app `depends_on` section.

```yaml
  auth0:
    image: public.ecr.aws/prima/localauth0:0.3.0
    environment:
      LOCALAUTH0_CONFIG_PATH: /etc/localauth0.toml
    volumes:
      - ./localauth0.toml:/etc/localauth0.toml:ro
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
```
